everybody welcome to another episode of
impact books today we are reviewing a
book they grab the hold of my brain and
absolutely refuse to let go
it's called disrupt you by Jay salmon
[Music]
Jay is a serial entrepreneur who's not
only proven that he's good at disrupting
himself he's good at disrupting entire
industries his career really has been
all over the map in the best way
possible he founded his own companies
been a software publisher works with
companies like LinkedIn and eBay pre-ipo
to help them grow and he's held senior
management roles at Sony and Universal
Pictures what I loved about the breadth
of experience is that it lends what he
says in the book a ton of credence
because you know he's been there and
done that and his message really is
quite simple there is a ton of
opportunity for you to capitalize on if
you can realize one simple fact things
change and they change really rapidly in
today's world where any given company
that used to stay on the S&P 500 for
roughly 33 years is now forecast to last
no more than 14 years you have to accept
the disruption is inevitable salmon's
goal with this book is to help you
understand the cycles of disruption and
learn how to question your own thinking
and your business model to ensure that
you never get caught flat-footed well
the concept is pretty straightforward
the specifics he details in the book are
really breathtaking the book is super
rich and usable information and I know
I'll be reading it again which I
actually don't do very often so when a
book makes my radar why are you reading
it it's something I know I'm going to
read again you know that it's good and
I've already got this one slated to add
to my must-read list of books which by
the way you can find on impact the read
calm
impact will take away a number one
entrepreneurs don't sell products they
sell solutions one thing Sam it really
brings home in the book through
countless examples is that you cannot
fall in love with your ideas you have to
be willing to pivot and destroy your
assumptions so that you can reapply your
energies in a way that the market will
actually respond favorably to it gave a
couple of awesome examples of this and
the first was the fact that YouTube
started as a dating site I had no idea
they'd use videos instead of still
images which was there a whole hook for
the dating site actually failed to take
off but one thing the team realized that
people actually enjoyed creating and
uploading the videos so they pivoted
renamed the site YouTube and the rest of
history another example was health so
knee failed to capture the e-book market
so knee was actually the first the mark
of an e-book reader which again I didn't
know that but they so self identified
with being a hardware manufacturer that
they just could not see the need to
create an online marketplace for ebooks
to accompany the reader and this one
failed Amazon on the other hand despite
not being a hardware manufacturer saw
the need to marry the hardware and the
e-book marketplace and they've since
cornered the market
all right impact will take away number
two get others invested in your success
Jay was trying to launch a product that
turned music videos into puzzles but he
knew that without popular songs the game
would go absolutely nowhere but
unfortunately he didn't know anyone in
the music industry so with some
relationship capital that he'd built up
in Microsoft he was able to get a letter
to Bill Gates asking him to make an
introduction to David Geffen
understanding the opportunity for David
Geffen and for Microsoft quite frankly
the game would only work on PCs and
would introduce a world of music fans to
music on the PC at a time that really
didn't happen Gates maybe intro to
guessin and Geffen ultimately agreed to
take a meeting with Jay in the meeting
Jay managed to get yep and interested in
his product by offering him wait for
this sixty percent of the profits just
for helping him get the 10 biggest acts
in the music business into his puzzle
game Jay was going to take all the risk
pay all the money upfront
but he said it was a no brainer to give
Geffen 50 percent of the profits because
we'd rather have 50 percent of the
Pacific Ocean then
100% of Lake Erie that is a critical
message and something that I find the
entrepreneurs fall down on all the time
is they're so concerned with owning a
hundred percent of something or as much
as they can that instead of seeing how
big the opportunity could be with a
smaller percent and just in terms of raw
dollars equal more in their bank account
they focus more on the percentage so
great example of the time where it's
better to let go of the percentage and
just think about the overall size of the
opportunity
all right impacts will take away number
three there's no such thing as running
out of money entrepreneurs and employees
alike struggle to find the budgets to
get their projects and products off the
ground but what Jamie incredibly clear
is that if you can find a way to solve
other people's problems with your
product you can get things done with
other people's money OPM as he calls it
he tells an awesome story of the time he
was trying to market Sony's new music
service but they themselves wouldn't
give him the money to do it so he looked
in the newspaper for companies that were
in trouble that were getting bad press
and tried to think of a way that his new
music service could solve their problem
two companies jumped out at the time
that was United Airlines and McDonald's
they were both in the midst of crazy PR
problems and he thought that a cool
stunt around Sony's new music service
could actually help them out so he
teamed up with them to launch a concert
in the sky where big artists performed a
concert on a United Airlines flight
filled with journalists and tied to that
he had the idea to do a promotion to
give away music with the purchase of Big
Mac it ended up being a huge hit and
United and McDonald's paid for the whole
thing Sony didn't have to pay for a done
as a bonus side no to the story and I
absolutely love this probably one of my
favorite parts of the book the promotion
almost didn't happen but Jay in true
disruptive fashion found a way to pull
it off he didn't know it but McDonald's
requires an insurance policy when doing
giveaways like this in case more people
then expected redeem the free coupon
Sony's half of the insurance policy
would have been 3 million bucks and Jay
didn't have any money for this let alone
3 million bucks but he had the foresight
to realize that Sony was a big enough
corporation that it can ensure the
policy itself instead of going through
an outside agency and he got McDonald's
to cut Sony their insurance division
check for half the cost of the policy so
in the end even before the project began
Jay had already made three million
dollars for Sony that my friends is
entrepreneurial ingenuity at its finest
this book is actually freakishly full of
awesome quotes I was actually pretty
surprised by just how many and it's well
worth going over to impact Theory comm
for more but I still force myself to
boil it down to the three that I think
are the most critical one yourself is
nothing more than what you believe it to
be you must remove all the internal and
external definitions of self that limit
your progress in life all right you guys
know my obsession with identity and what
Santa makes clear in the book is that
your identity if you're not careful will
become one of the things that hold you
back
think back to the earlier example with
Sony they couldn't break free of their
identity as a hardware manufacturer and
as such they miss a huge opportunity
so always my friends be looking for ways
to disrupt your own identity remember
you sell solutions not products all
right number to an average idea
enthusiastically embraced will go a lot
farther than a genius idea no one gets
it is not enough to have a good idea
it's just not enough you've got to be
able to get people to believe in it and
put their energies behind it don't allow
yourself be out of viewing yourself as a
misunderstood genius working with a
horde of fools as tempting as that might
be instead you have to understand you
have to understand your success comes
down to your ability to communicate to
people in a way that they can understand
all right number three our lives and
careers are determined by our acceptance
or rejection of our perceived
limitations to me this is a fundamental
building block of success in fact it may
be the building block that I am most
obsessed with getting people to
understand only you are holding you back
and only you my friends can set yourself
free
[Music]
all right there are so many amazing
quotes and ideas in this book be sure to
go to impact Theory comm for more quotes
and all the things that have lodged
themselves deep in my brain all right
number four this is always my favorite
part how do I plan to use this book in
my life on this one my friend it is very
easy I plan to use the tips and tricks
from this book to ensure that I'm able
to spot and capitalize on disruptive
movements in the world guys technology
is evolving us so rapidly if you're not
paying attention from this perspective
of watching out for disruption
reinventing yourself disrupting yourself
you're going to get your lunch eaten by
somebody who is I want to leave you with
one last thing and I love this quote let
this sink in only 13% 13% of the world's
billionaires were born into money the
vast majority of today's most successful
individuals change themselves in such a
way as to all right for the rest of that
quote you guys going to have to read the
book and trust me you're going to want
to hear how he finishes that sentence
alright guys this is a weekly show so be
sure to subscribe if you haven't already
and until next time my friends be
legendary
take care
you